Opa concept docs (#230)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/concepts/pages/opa.adoc

//
Authorization policies are defined in the Rego language, divided into packages and supplied via ConfigMaps.
//
Every node is running an OPA instance for fast policy evaluation and products are connected to OPA with the xref:service_discovery.adoc[service discovery] mechanism.

== What is OPA?
// What's OPA? What are Rego Rules?
OPA is an open source, general purpose policy engine. It supports a high-level declarative language called https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/policy-language/[Rego]. Rego enables you to specify complex policies as code and transfer the decision-making processes from your software to OPA. Policies written in Rego are called _Rego rules_.

// policy requests
Policy requests are made to a REST API, which allows easy requests from microservices, Kubernetes or CI/CD pipelines. In the request the requester can supply arbitrary structured input data as JSON to supply context information to the policy decision rules. For example the name of the user, resource and action for which an authorization is requested. In this way policy decision-making and policy enforcement are decoupled.

== How it works
// How it is deployed

> OPA is run by the xref:opa::index.adoc[Stackable OPA operator]. OPA is deployed with the OpaCluster resource, from which the operator creates a DaemonSet to run an OPA instance on every node of the cluster. Because of this, every Pod making policy requests will always make the request locally, minimizing latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OPA is run by the xref:opa::index.adoc[Stackable OPA operator]. OPA is deployed with the OpaCluster resource, from which the operator creates a DaemonSet to run an OPA instance on every node of the cluster. Because of this, every Pod making policy requests will always make the request locally, minimizing latency and network traffic.
```

=== Define policies

> OPA by itself does not enforce a specific structure of Rego rules and the packages they are in, but the Stackable platform makes some assumptions. Whenever a product is connected to OPA (see <<_connect_a_product>>), a single package needs to be given, and that package needs to contain specific rules depending on the product. For example for Druid, a single `allow` rule needs to be defined.

Reviewer: Provide a product?

Author: What do you mean?

// Rego rules in config maps

> The Rego rule policies are supplied as ConfigMaps. Multiple ConfigMaps can be used for multiple packages, for example one package for Druid authorization, one package for a Trino development instance and one package for a Trino production instance. ConfigMaps were chosen as an easy to use method of supplying configuration files in a Kubernetes environment. The operator takes care of assembling the ConfigMaps into a policy bundle, every policy ConfigMap needs to be labeled so the operator knows to include it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rego rule policies are supplied as ConfigMaps. Multiple ConfigMaps can be used for multiple packages, for example one package for Druid authorization, one package for a Trino development instance and one package for a Trino production instance. ConfigMaps were chosen as an easy to use method of supplying configuration files in a Kubernetes environment. The operator takes care of assembling the ConfigMaps into a policy bundle, every policy ConfigMap must contain a `opa.stackable.tech/bundle` label in order to be processed by the OPA operator.
```
